Nondro practices. And then, second, is Pacifica Nondro practices. There is two. Janaru Nondro
practices is, is, is what, and here H.H. Dudjom Rinpoche teaches here, says that Janaru Nondro
practices is reflecting strongly on the four renowned session thoughts.
In order to begin, again, I'm, in teaching, already practiced here, that please in, and what's
called, infallible, perfecto, perfecto, lama, root teacher.
H.H. Dudjom Rinpoche teaches here. He's honored, Nondro, in the form of the Gharb M. Asambo. Please
watch me. Consider me. Bless me. So the Mayor, I completely fulfill another meaning of this four
renowned session.
It's kind of strongly really filled connection. And the four renowned session, again, I just
summarized that is, is any practices. Both is, precious life, or precious human body, is, first,
second is impermanence.
Third is, is, cause and effect are inevitable, or reflecting the karma, commonly known as the karma
action. And the fourth is, samsara has a difficulty.
These four are so important, and that's what the greatest teacher, Buddha, gave the fourth is
teaching, known as poor, noble truth. What is poor, noble truth?
Noble truths are suffering truth, cause of suffering truth. And then, part truth, sensation truth.
Or, sensation truth, part truth.
So that poor, among that poor, this poor renunciation is the first truth, suffering truth, cause of
suffering truth.
That's the essence, condensate meaning of the first truth. And now, in that way, the fourth is the
precious body, precious life.
These precious, why is called precious? Because to, according to the teaching of the Buddha, to
obtain a human body, or to be as human beings, is not so easy.
Because it has very, very selected, the perceived cause and conditions, really have to be. And
without the cause and conditions, we won't get anything.
So it has to be born as human beings, is really special cause and condition, which is known as
karma, commonly.
So that means, what we have, our body and our present situation is resolved. So that means, in the
past, we did good karma.
In the previous lifetime, that's why we are really beautiful human beings. Now, precious. And what
we have now, precious human beings, is eating endowments.
At freedom, ten luxuries. It's so precious, so special. So therefore, feel happy, feel joy, how
precious it is.
That what in some, many times the teaching, that is so special, so rare. Difficult to obtain this,
yet we got. We got this beautiful precious life.
It's like we're fully in it. We're not taking always making the wish-fulfilling games. It's more
rare, more precious than wish-fulfilling jewels.
It's so special. So how grateful, how so special, thankful, happy.
With joy and happy, and now have the commitment that I'm going to use this for the good purpose,
for the goal, really have some connections or some review of the commitment in heart and mind.
Because why we need? Because this is also not going to last forever. It's a short time. Our life is
, in a way, really short moment.
It's just a short time we're here and having this beautiful time in the situation. It's not going
to last.
So where everything is in our hands, where everything is under our control, why we don't take the
advantage of this situation?
And we don't take the advantage of this. Then it's time the precious life is not going to wait for
us.
Therefore, really take the full time of advantage and use this point, something that we make
ourselves strong, happy mentally.
Feel happy so that we don't have to feel how to bend or this appointment at the end.
And always in the teachings said, you should be always, when you look back, look back, when you
look back, make yourself happy.
Do you think that you feel happy? Or when I look back myself, I did good.
Now I'm doing good, I will do good, have commitment.
So looking fast, you did good, now you're doing good, and the future of our plan is to be good.
And we have that attitude. And in the teachings said, then you're fulfilling your life, purpose of
this life.
Therefore, this is a present and momentary, and well, everything is our opportunity we should use.
And why? Why is it kind of not going to stick? Because the second is the employment.
This second employment is also, I mean, is continually changing that we all know.
Really, how many things change since we have the memory, until now, if you look back, how many
things change?
The 80, companions, experience, our wealth, our treasure, and that all change.
Whether we like is change, whether we don't like is change. Everything is really change.
Change is changing now, and wealth change. Nothing is permanent. That is what in the teachings said
.
The growth level in permanent and the subtle level in permanent.
The growth level in permanent, what in the teachings said.
The external universe is in permanent. The world is in permanent.
Inhabited in the beings who live in, is in permanent.
And every reflected, all those enlightened beings, noble beings, is in permanent.
Such as the great British teacher Buddha.
And all those great Ahadas, is only historians. This great teacher Buddha and Ahadas, all those Mah
asadas,
they have the power to change the elements.
They can walk through the walls, sitting on the sky, transforming water into the fire, fire into
the water.
And going down under the ground, as like a transparent, walking through the wall.
And in the teachings said, murking, the, murking the, from the book of cows, murking.
You can murk in the Book of Quorum of Cows. It's unbelievable.
And one, I mean, in Christianity too, I just, of course, I'm sure there's so many, but I, one of
that.
Yeshua Christ starts poem, one bread, so many breads to spread so many things.
And one alcohol starts poem, so countless alcohols, all these things.
They change these things, they can't do.
Wow, yet, it's only really the historians. It's all, it's not our science now.
And Gautam Rama Sambaba is according to teaching, beyond the death and birth.
But also, it's only in the teaching. It's left from Tibet, fluent from sky to the sky.
I mean, there, it's really late. And then all the universe, those kings, powerful kings, monarch,
and all,
so powerful, so dignity, so glorious, and rich in power, also, have been always gone.
So therefore, we said, think of the impermanence, the mind impermanent to the universe, and the
world is how many things change.
And according to Buddhism, this world is not going to last forever.
It's only going to last 20 years in the teachings.
It came nearly 20 years before it came. It was going to decline.
And then you're going to become completely spiritual.
He said according to teaching, so it's nothing going to last.
And then, in all the experiences, one thing we had, so therefore what in the teaching said,
reflected impermanence to the universe, reflected impermanence to the inhabitants,
reflected impermanence to the noble beings, reflected impermanence to those powerful beings,
and reflected impermanence, reflected impermanence to all the beings of six realms,
and reflected impermanence to each of our own experiences.
And when we reflected that impermanent, according to teaching,
teaching all the great masters and Buddhists, it made our heart more soft, more tender,
we become more practical, and used time for beautiful purposes, really, with that.
And also we get glimpse, understand where really things are.
Now we're just looking through the kind of sky or completely other directions.
We ignore it around us.
Reflecting impermanence is great knowledge.
For that reason, the greatest teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni, said that
among all the conceptions, that thought of the impermanent is great, is big and super.
It's a conception, but it is true conception, true thought.
Then suddenly impermanence, we don't detect.
Ourself we don't detect. We are gross level.
Everything is moving and changing.
All those malakus, essence, that means the essence is changing.
There's no impermanent, permanent essence. It's changing.
That subtle impermanent is pushing the gross impermanent, we can only detect it.
Reality is shifting, shifting, changing, and affirming.
So that is so, according to teaching, is so important to reflect that, that impermanent.
The next one is cause and conditions.
The karma is so important.
This time we're going to reflect everything is cause and condition.
External is cause and condition, effort, and inwardly is cause and condition, effort, everything.
Nothing really has came without cause and condition and cooperation.
But this time we are not taking emphasize inner cause and condition, our own inner states.
That means what? Our mind.
Mind, that is we really have to observe our mind.
Because mind is the producer of our karma.
No one, according Buddhism, no one else is producing the karma and overloading to us.
Once all karma is produced by one's own mind, there's no one else.
And who controls our own mind?
According Buddhism, no one is controlling our mind except you, except one's own sight.
Therefore, we have 100% right capabilities and authority to keep the balance and control our own
mind.
And so what we have to do?
Where is the time?
Time, our mind is wired, carried by force of dualities, emotions.
Emotions.
So therefore we have to control our self.
And then what is this?
Karma is produced by the mind.
Positive mind and its action produce the good karma.
Negative mind and negative action, action of that, produce the negative karma.
So negative or bad karma and good karma is produced by one's own positive mind or good mind and bad
mind.
That's why we really have to watch.
And what is bad karma?
And again, great master.
Nagarjuna said in his teachings,
the anger, ignorance, attachment is negative.
And any action came from that combination, it will be negative action and negative karma.
Negative karma.
And what is positive?
The non-attachment, no anger means loving kindness, or detachment and loving kindness and
compassion.
And the wisdom is positive.
And whatever action comes from that, through the body, through the verbal, that is positive or good
karma.
So that is karma we create.
So this karma, the dual of the karma is our own mind.
Then when we create the karma, what does that mean? Of course, we all know that.
But karma means it is, now we've reproduced the cause.
We really created a good cause.
Where we registered, where we're keeping that?
What is Buddhism? We're keeping that each time automatically, naturally, on the self-consciousness
throw house.
Our own self-consciousness throw house.
We kept the cause.
Now we're piling up the seat, whether it's good or bad, we're printed in self-consciousness.
Self-consciousness throw house may be more than time.
We can use examples as eye-clothes, or the big space eye-clothes of the consciousness.
We kept that. Now, really, we registered.
Once you registered there, when you keep there, it's not going to go away.
Unless, again, you did something, our own self did something to make that go away.
Otherwise, it will stay there for as long as until it's matured or fertilized and grown.
When it's caused there, what is now? Conditional place.
That is against minds and combinational activities, and our deed, and then it matures.
It comes, boom, one after another.
And when it comes, also it's not just one negative, get one resolve, or one karma get one resolve.
It multiplies.
Similar, when we planted apple seed, apple tree, apple seed, I believe it's apple seed.
One apple seed, small apple seed grows one apple tree.
That from one seed, with conditions, mind took it.
And each apple tree, that one seed, apple tree, that one seed that comes apple tree,
and then how many apples comes from that?
Hundreds of apples comes every year. It's continuous.
Multiply. When that will stop, until you destroy it, or until something big condition comes,
and destroy that apple tree, then it stops.
So same thing. Karma won't go. It multiplies.
It will gain reaction again and again, and we don't do that.
Therefore, actions that we have to pay, really, very powerful with that mind from the student
actions.
So that's really important. And therefore, the positive, negatives are all in our mind's produce.
And there is, again, positive, generally, and then all the negatives, I mean, this is called, what
's called?
Negative has many different categories.
Those are, when it's highlighted, those are different groups.
I mean, things, even though it causes anger, causes negative, causes anger, and attachment anger,
but when it comes, then it came through what?
What's called ten known virtues. Ten known virtues.
Three by the body, four by the speech, three by the mind.
Those four, I mean, ten known virtues.
That is come from the causes symbol.
Three, anger, attachment, and ignorance.
Come back and develop ten different.
And then each of those, again, develop so many really big karmas.
And those are, generally, these ten known virtues. It's, what's called, natural karma.
Natural karma means it's just universally proved.
Everybody, whether you're a Buddhist, whether you're not Buddhist today, whether you're a believer
in there,
whether you're not believer, everybody thinks ten known virtues is not good, bad.
That's it. Therefore, called rambi-kana-mato, means it's naturally proved.
And then jeba-kana-mato, but above that, vast upon that, then jeba-kana-mato is restricted
negativity.
Those are kind of such as breaking the walls, rules, and regulations.
Generally, the Buddhism, Buddha teaching is really vast on good human conduct, ethics.
So then, the ten known virtues is when his Buddha teaching vast on that and expanded,
and then those, all the vows came in Buddhism.
Vinaya vows and Bodhic vowels, and then as well as Vaidyana, Samaya, all the vows, all that came.
It's from this ten known virtues, expanded that.
And then ten good virtues, ten good, positive virtues, opposite of that.
And that is when you keep that, when you keep those perfectly and according to that nature,
when you award that, naturally we are keeping up all the vows and all the Samayas,
all the rules, the guidelines of the Buddha's teaching.
So, Buddha's teaching is really vast on very practical, very practical, very systematic,
and very natural, is vast on the good conduct of human beings.
For that reason, the great master Nagarjuna said,
"If you have good ethics in the conduct of the human work, human beings,
then you are not far from heaven."
When you are in heaven, the realization that one is not far, that's why.
So, it's all really vast down there.
So, therefore, cause, and then, of course, you can read.
There are so many beautiful books, more details of that,
but that's my brilliant talk about the cause and the condition.
Effects are inevitable.
I mean, this is inevitable.
Once you print it, unless we qualify it.
And then, next one is, the fourth one is, Samsara has challenged the difficulties.
Samsara is the result of the cause of suffering truth, according to the teacher.
That means, Samsara is the result of the anger, and ignorance, and attachment,
and then, combination of those, the emotions, the jealous, and arrogance, and all that.
So, Samsara is really the result of the cause of suffering truth.
Samsara is, according to the teaching, suffering truth, in that category,
and among the two past truths, Samsara is.
So, therefore, it has troubles, it has challenges, difficulties.
And there is, how many Samsara, what are Samsara?
According to Buddhism, there are six realms.
Hell ram, hungry ghost, animal, and those are known as three law rams.
They have more challenges, more difficulties, more troubles in the life, really, according to the
teaching.
And three upper rams of Samsara, which is considered higher, and better, and more, kind of, lever
aged.
Those are the human rams, astral rams, and God's rams.
Those are the three upper rams.
Even though these upper rams are really better than three law rams, but yet, we have so many
troubles.
And human rams, I mean, it is all shared in one upper.
And all the Buddhism, those are being shared.
Even though we all have to get good, we don't have to go through these changes, challenges.
And then, getting old, sickness, death, all those are challenges.
And then for us, there are so many challenges.
And astral rams, there are so many other challenges.
Particularly, a cold activity, fighting, and arguing, even though it is a better condition
than even human rams, but yet, there are so many challenges.
And God's rams had also a lot of troubles, even though they are good times.
Good times are everything, but it is not going to last forever.
And in the end, they have great trouble.
So, therefore, Samsara is just moments of trouble.
And so, for those reasons, the end, we really going to change the direction.
If we keep confusingly, as we have been doing, then there is just an endless Samsara.
There is nothing going to change.
For that reason, then I am going to change the direction.
And then follow the next practice.
And then follow the practice.
And you see, I told you, the thinking of the full number two, then part two.
Follow with the five.
And part two is about bringing the end, the result as a sensational truth.
And sensation means what's ceased.
And it's stopping.
Now all the difficulty is troubled.
And the cause of suffering and bad things.
Completely, inwardly stopped.
That is the sensation, breathing.
So, that is really about this whole renunciation of thought.